Update NIC release notes for 5.5.0 (#1998)
nginx/documentation: content/nic/tutorials/security-monitoring.md

> This document explains how to use NGINX Ingress Controller to configure NGINX Agent for sending F5 WAF for NGINX metrics to NGINX Security Monitoring.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document explains how to use NGINX Ingress Controller to configure NGINX Agent to send F5 WAF for NGINX metrics to NGINX Security Monitoring.
```

You can send security metrics to either:

- **NGINX Instance Manager** using NGINX Agent 2
- **NGINX One Console** using NGINX Agent 3 (available starting with NGINX Ingress Controller 5.5.0, using images with the `-agent` suffix)

{{<tabs name="setup-security-monitoring">}}

{{%tab name="NGINX Instance Manager"%}}

## Before you begin

This guide assumes that you have an installation of NGINX Instance Manager with NGINX Security Monitoring which is reachable from the Kubernetes cluster on which NGINX Ingress Controller is deployed.

> NGINX Ingress Controller images that include F5 WAF for NGINX also include NGINX Agent 2. See the [Technical specifications]({{< ref "/nic/technical-specifications.md#images-with-nginx-plus" >}}) for the full list of available image variants.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NGINX Ingress Controller images with F5 WAF for NGINX include NGINX Agent 2. See the [Technical specifications]({{< ref "/nic/technical-specifications.md#images-with-nginx-plus" >}}) for the full list of available image variants.
```

2. Follow the [Installation with Helm]({{< ref "/nic/install/helm.md" >}}) instructions to deploy NGINX Ingress Controller with custom resources enabled, and optionally set other `nginxAgent.*` values if required.

### Using Manifests

> 1. Add the below arguments to the `args` section of your NGINX Ingress Controller Deployment, DaemonSet, or StatefulSet:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Add the following arguments to the `args` section of your NGINX Ingress Controller Deployment, DaemonSet, or StatefulSet:
```

For the required log bundle, the `secops_dashboard` log profile is available to download directly from **WAF > Log Profiles** in NGINX One Console — no compilation needed. See [Set up security monitoring](https://docs.nginx.com/nginx-one-console/waf-integration/waf-security-dashboard/set-up-security-monitoring/) in the NGINX One Console documentation for details.

## Upgrade from NGINX Instance Manager to NGINX One Console

If you have an existing deployment using NGINX Instance Manager (NGINX Agent 2) and want to migrate to NGINX One Console (NGINX Agent 3, available starting with NGINX Ingress Controller 5.5.0), follow these steps:

1. **Obtain a data plane key** from NGINX One Console. See [Create and manage data plane keys]({{< ref "/nginx-one-console/connect-instances/create-manage-data-plane-keys.md" >}}).

2. **Create the data plane key Secret** in the same namespace as your NGINX Ingress Controller deployment:

    ```shell
    kubectl create secret generic dataplane-key \
      --from-literal=dataplane.key=<Your Dataplane Key> \
      -n <namespace>
    ```

> 3. **Update your deployment** to use NGINX Agent 3:

Reviewer: If this is for NGINX One Console, include that. Maybe:

```suggestion
3. To continue the conversion to NGINX One Console, **update your deployment** to use NGINX Agent 3:
```

4. Follow the [Installation with Manifests]({{< ref "/nic/install/manifests.md" >}}) instructions to deploy NGINX Ingress Controller with custom resources enabled.

Once installed and configured, the pods will be visible in the NGINX Instance Manager Instances dashboard.

{{%/tab%}}

{{%tab name="NGINX One Console"%}}

> ## Before you begin

Reviewer: This should be consolidated with the other "Before you begin" section in line 21

Reviewer 2: Attempted this, there was some info which didn't exist in both so I added that to the `add-nic.md` docs

This guide assumes that you have an NGINX One Console account with access to create data plane keys.

- Create a [data plane key]({{< ref "/nginx-one-console/connect-instances/create-manage-data-plane-keys.md" >}}) from NGINX One Console. Pay attention to the expiration date of that key.
- Create a Kubernetes Secret with the data plane key in the same namespace where NGINX Ingress Controller will be deployed:

    ```shell
    kubectl create secret generic dataplane-key \
      --from-literal=dataplane.key=<Your Dataplane Key> \
      -n <namespace>
    ```

- Use an image variant with the `-agent` suffix, available starting with NGINX Ingress Controller 5.5.0 (for example, `debian-plus-nap-agent` for F5 WAF for NGINX v4, or `debian-plus-nap-v5-agent` for v5). Images without the `-agent` suffix include NGINX Agent 2 and are not compatible with NGINX One Console. See the [Technical specifications]({{< ref "/nic/technical-specifications.md#images-with-nginx-plus" >}}) for the full list of available image variants.

## Deploy NGINX Ingress Controller with NGINX Agent

> ### Using Helm

Reviewer: Avoid gerunds, ref https://github.com/F5Docs/style-guide/blob/main/formatting/headings.md

```suggestion
### Use Helm
```

1. Add the below arguments to the `values.yaml` file:

    ```yaml
    nginxAgent:
      enable: true
      dataplaneKeySecretName: "<data_plane_key_secret_name>"
      endpointHost: "agent.connect.nginx.com"
      endpointPort: 443
    ```

2. Follow the [Installation with Helm]({{< ref "/nic/install/helm.md" >}}) instructions to deploy NGINX Ingress Controller with custom resources enabled.

See the [Connect NGINX Ingress Controller to NGINX One Console]({{< ref "/nginx-one-console/k8s/add-nic.md" >}}) guide for more details on connecting to NGINX One Console.

> ### Using Manifests

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Use Manifests
```

> 1. Add the below argument to the `args` section of your NGINX Ingress Controller Deployment, DaemonSet, or StatefulSet:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Add the following argument to the `args` section of your NGINX Ingress Controller Deployment, DaemonSet, or StatefulSet:
```

4. Mount the ConfigMap and the data plane key Secret to the NGINX Ingress Controller pod:

   ```yaml
   volumes:
     - name: agent-conf
       configMap:
         name: nginx-agent-config
     - name: agent-etc
       emptyDir: {}
     - name: dataplane-key
       secret:
         secretName: "<data_plane_key_secret_name>"
     - name: agent-dynamic
       emptyDir: {}
   ```

   ```yaml
   volumeMounts:
     - name: agent-etc
       mountPath: /etc/nginx-agent
     - name: agent-conf
       mountPath: /etc/nginx-agent/nginx-agent.conf
       subPath: nginx-agent.conf
     - name: dataplane-key
       mountPath: /etc/nginx-agent/secrets
     - name: agent-dynamic
       mountPath: /var/lib/nginx-agent
   ```

5. Follow the [Installation with Manifests]({{< ref "/nic/install/manifests.md" >}}) instructions to deploy NGINX Ingress Controller with custom resources enabled.

Once installed, the pods will be visible in NGINX One Console. See [Verify a connection to NGINX One Console]({{< ref "/nginx-one-console/k8s/add-nic.md#verify-a-connection-to-nginx-one-console" >}}) for details.

{{%/tab%}}

{{</tabs>}}

> ## Configuring F5 WAF for NGINX to send metrics to NGINX Agent

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Configure F5 WAF for NGINX to send metrics to NGINX Agent
```

> NGINX Agent runs a syslog listener which F5 WAF for NGINX can be configured to send logs to, which will then allow NGINX Agent to send metrics to NGINX Security Monitoring. This applies to both NGINX Instance Manager (NGINX Agent 2) and NGINX One Console (NGINX Agent 3) deployments. When using NGINX Agent 3, the `logs-nap` feature handles syslog collection automatically.

Reviewer: This is confusing. Maybe: 

```suggestion
NGINX Agent runs a syslog listener. Configure F5 WAF for NGINX to send logs to this listener so that NGINX Agent can forward metrics to NGINX Security Monitoring.

This applies to deployments using NGINX Instance Manager and NGINX One Console. In NGINX One Console deployments (which uses NGINX Agent 3.x), the `logs-nap` feature handles syslog collection automatically.
```

Configure the WAF Policy `logDest` to send logs to the NGINX Agent syslog listener at `syslog:server=127.0.0.1:1514`.

> For F5 WAF for NGINX v4, see the [VirtualServer example](https://github.com/nginx/kubernetes-ingress/tree/v{{< nic-version >}}/examples/custom-resources/security-monitoring) and [Ingress example](https://github.com/nginx/kubernetes-ingress/tree/v{{< nic-version >}}/examples/ingress-resources/security-monitoring) in the repository. Do not modify the APLogConf in these examples, as NGINX Agent expects a specific log format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For F5 WAF for NGINX v4, see the [VirtualServer example](https://github.com/nginx/kubernetes-ingress/tree/v{{< nic-version >}}/examples/custom-resources/security-monitoring) and [Ingress example](https://github.com/nginx/kubernetes-ingress/tree/v{{< nic-version >}}/examples/ingress-resources/security-monitoring) in the repository. Do not modify the APLogConf in these examples, because NGINX Agent expects a specific log format.
```

> For F5 WAF for NGINX v5, see the [VirtualServer example](https://github.com/nginx/kubernetes-ingress/tree/v{{< nic-version >}}/examples/custom-resources/security-monitoring-v5) and [Ingress example](https://github.com/nginx/kubernetes-ingress/tree/v{{< nic-version >}}/examples/ingress-resources/security-monitoring-v5) in the repository. Policy and log configurations are compiled into bundles (`.tgz` files) instead of using APPolicy and APLogConf custom resources. The log bundle must be compiled from a log profile that matches the format required by NGINX Security Monitoring. See the [F5 WAF for NGINX v5 configuration guide]({{< ref "/nic/integrations/app-protect-waf-v5/configuration.md" >}}) for details on compiling policy and log bundles.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For F5 WAF for NGINX v5, see the [VirtualServer example](https://github.com/nginx/kubernetes-ingress/tree/v{{< nic-version >}}/examples/custom-resources/security-monitoring-v5) and [Ingress example](https://github.com/nginx/kubernetes-ingress/tree/v{{< nic-version >}}/examples/ingress-resources/security-monitoring-v5) in the repository. Compile policy and log configurations into bundles (`.tgz` files). Do not use APPolicy and APLogConf custom resources. The log bundle must be compiled from a log profile that matches the format required by NGINX Security Monitoring. See the [F5 WAF for NGINX v5 configuration guide]({{< ref "/nic/integrations/app-protect-waf-v5/configuration.md" >}}) for details on compiling policy and log bundles.
```

> When using NGINX One Console, you can create and manage WAF policies under **WAF > Policies**. Once you have a policy, compile it into a `.tgz` bundle using the waf-compiler image and copy it to the pod at `/etc/app_protect/bundles/`. See [Compile WAF Policy from JSON to Bundle]({{< ref "/nic/install/waf-helm.md#compile-waf-policy-from-json-to-bundle" >}}) for the compilation steps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using NGINX One Console, you can create and manage WAF policies under **WAF > Policies**. After you create a policy, compile it into a `.tgz` bundle using the waf-compiler image and copy it to the pod at `/etc/app_protect/bundles/`. See [Compile WAF Policy from JSON to Bundle]({{< ref "/nic/install/waf-helm.md#compile-waf-policy-from-json-to-bundle" >}}) for the compilation steps.
```

For the required log bundle, the `secops_dashboard` log profile is available to download directly from **WAF > Log Profiles** in NGINX One Console — no compilation needed. See [Set up security monitoring](https://docs.nginx.com/nginx-one-console/waf-integration/waf-security-dashboard/set-up-security-monitoring/) in the NGINX One Console documentation for details.

> ## Upgrading from NGINX Instance Manager to NGINX One Console

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Upgrade from NGINX Instance Manager to NGINX One Console
```

> If you have an existing deployment using NGINX Instance Manager (NGINX Agent 2) and want to migrate to NGINX One Console (NGINX Agent 3, available starting with NGINX Ingress Controller 5.5.0), follow these steps:

Reviewer: If you need to keep referring to Agent 2 and Agent 3, use a separate sentence, maybe a note

2. **Create the data plane key Secret** in the same namespace as your NGINX Ingress Controller deployment:

    ```shell
    kubectl create secret generic dataplane-key \
      --from-literal=dataplane.key=<Your Dataplane Key> \
      -n <namespace>
    ```

3. **Update your deployment** to use NGINX Agent 3:

{{<tabs name="upgrade-agent">}}

{{%tab name="Using Helm"%}}

Update your `values.yaml` to replace the NGINX Instance Manager configuration with NGINX One Console configuration:

```yaml
# Remove these values:
# nginxAgent:
#   instanceManager:
#     host: "nim.example.com"
#   syslog: ...
#   napMonitoring: ...

# Add NGINX One Console configuration:
nginxAgent:
  enable: true
  dataplaneKeySecretName: "dataplane-key"
  endpointHost: "agent.connect.nginx.com"
  endpointPort: 443
```

Run the upgrade:

```shell
helm upgrade <release-name> oci://ghcr.io/nginx/charts/nginx-ingress --version {{< nic-helm-version >}} \
  -f values.yaml \
  -n <namespace>
```

{{%/tab%}}

{{%tab name="Using Manifests"%}}

> 1. Update the container image in your Deployment or DaemonSet to an image variant with the `-agent` suffix, available starting with NGINX Ingress Controller 5.5.0 (for example, `debian-plus-nap-agent` for WAF v4, or `debian-plus-nap-v5-agent` for WAF v5).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Update the container image in your Deployment or DaemonSet to an image variant with the `-agent` suffix, available starting with NGINX Ingress Controller 5.5.0 
   For example, depending on your Linux distribution, you could use `debian-plus-nap-agent` for WAF v4, or `debian-plus-nap-v5-agent` for WAF v5.
```

2. Update the container args to remove `-agent-instance-group`:

    ```yaml
    args:
      - -agent=true
      # Remove: - -agent-instance-group=<name>
    ```

> 3. Replace the `nginx-agent.conf` ConfigMap with the NGINX Agent 3 configuration shown in the [Using NGINX One Console - Using Manifests](#using-nginx-one-console) section above.

Reviewer: We avoid directional phrases. The locations of sections can change

```suggestion
3. Replace the `nginx-agent.conf` ConfigMap with the NGINX Agent 3 configuration shown in the [Using NGINX One Console - Using Manifests](#using-nginx-one-console) section.
```
